Greyhounds fleet consists of about 1300
buses all of which are 45 foot motor
coaches we go from Canada to the United
States and down into Mexico first group
America and Greyhound Lines are
currently revamping the brand image of
Greyhound Lines in doing so our
commitment to providing the safest most
efficient most reliable most durable
transportation for North America is our
goal we have a very extensive
specification and spec research in our
purchasing process when we go out to
purchase new vehicles and technology we
go through a very very rigorous process
one big piece of that is fuel efficiency
when the vehicle is in a much more
fuel-efficient status than we all win in
this particular case we were reviewing
powertrains engine transmission drive
line and so we did a runoff between
engine manufacturers as well as
transmission manufacturers and during
the runoff we realized that there was
opportunity to fine tune and tweak the
allison package our goal is to try and
make the engine run in its sweet spot
the way that we do that is through a
shift schedule from the transmission we
try and shift around the sweet spot of
the engine and then how do we continue
to maintain that sweet spot of the
engine while we're out on cruise because
68% of our time based on the duty cycle
is spin out on Cruise in the past the
vehicle at cruise would have been
turning roughly 1550 rpms weari gear the
vehicle to bring engine speed down to
about 1200 RP
that has several benefits over and above
the efficiency some of the other nice
things about doing that is that you
potentially extend the life of the
engine the second thing is is the noise
level by dropping engine speed back we
effectively drop almost three DB which
is a huge drop in noise level and with
the deployment of some of Allison's new
technologies one of which is rels had a
substantial impact to the overall
efficiency gains of the entire vehicle
so the power of application engineering
is very profound here a group of
application engineers from Allison the
engine manufacturer the OEM of the
vehicle as well as us is very very
powerful now I will say that it is
always a trade-off between efficiency
and drivability so as you start to
typically increase the efficiency of the
vehicle drivability has a tendency to
suffer I feel very good about the
process that we just went through with
Allison and the rest of the partners in
this venture that there was no
detrimental impact to drivability and
yet our efficiency of the overall
package was increased substantially so
at the end of the day by changing the
shift schedule of the transmission to
fine tune it to make the engine stay at
its sweet spot and by rehearing the
vehicle to run in the sweet spot on
crews out on the highway we were able to
increase our efficiency
one and a half mile to the gallon now
when we say we increase the efficiency
by a mile and a half to the gallon we
employ SAE practices from a standpoint
of how do we measure fuel economy so we
use a waste scale we use certified
diesel fuel to do this and following the
SAE protocol to arrive at fuel economy
if you take a look at average mileage on
a Greyhound bus we run about a hundred
and thirty thousand miles in a 12 month
time period so when you talk about a
mile and a half to the gallon
improvement in fuel economy based on our
duty cycle of running 68 percent of the
time out on the highway in crews it is a
substantial impact to our bottom line
from a standpoint of fuel used so
through about a month-and-a-half process
of a lot of due diligence and a lot of
documenting and running on the highway
and utilizing the sae practices in our
fuel economy we were able to focus on
the Allison product because of its huge
gains to the overall package of the
vehicle and increase our efficiency
you